## General-Relativity

This repository contains my extended self-study of General Relativity over Summer 2025. This follows a General Relativity lecture course I took in my fourth year at the University of Glasgow, taught by Dr. Norman Gray and Dr. John Veitch. I created this repository with the intention to create a portfolio of sorts containing coding projects related to GR and gain some experience in the subject before starting my final year MSci project. My hopes were that this repository would bolster my PhD applications and serve as an easily accessible example of my work. 

I initially started this self-study project with the ambition to cover a different chapter of "A First Course in General Relativity" by Bernard Schutz each week, doing the exercises and a related coding project, but realised I was overzealous and actually really needed a break from studying after my fourth year exams. This repository contains the work that I managed to do over the Summer while working a part time job at my local Sainsbury's supermarket and studying the Parker Solar Wind equation (see relevant repository).

I started the project by going over the basics of Special Relativity. The coding projects are contained in the folder titled "SR" and include a flat-space invariant interval calculator, a lorentz transform function, a collision simulator which uses a transformation to the CoM frame to calculate four-momenta after a collision of two point particles, and a Minkowski diagram generator which gives the coordinates of events in different reference frames.

The folder "Schwarzschild Geodesics" contains code relating to the motion of matter and light in a Schwarzschild spacetime, namely a solver of the second order non-homogeneous equation of motion in $u(\phi) = \frac{1}{r}$ derived from the geodesic equation and the Schwarzschild metric.